David, not thinking, I would do those things.
I was put in charge of distributing most of the money that was brought into the experiment station for new initiatives.
Three people, Foden Maxwell, myself, and the head of biochemistry, Gene, I can't even think of his name right.
But anyhow, we distributed all that money and we reviewed protocols and projects and I did all of that and set up the IBT and all those things kind of without George being involved.
And as I look back on it, but he never complained and never said a word, and he just helped me if I needed something.
Most deans would have had a heart attack.
They had some buck running around doing all the things that I did.
In fact, his wife used to say, tell George, he said, tell him that McCready's working you to death, George.
He's supposed to be working for you.
And I look back on it.
I did all that, but I didn't do it.
I wasn't trying to go above or anybody or anything.
It was just fun.
I mean, it was just because I was getting that money for our college.
I felt good.
I was getting so much Experiment Station money and giving it to our people over here.
that I would think that George couldn't help but be happy about it, you know.
But again, I should have been more in touch with him along the way.
At the campus level, Dr. Miller served until 1980.
then there's an interim president, Chuck Sampson.
Any changes at that point?
No, not really.
I had developed a program in biomedical engineering back when I was setting up the medical program and all of that, and had brought some people in, Dan Hightower and Jim, I can't think of his name right now, and actually set up a biomedical engineering
program, and we used part of the Teague Building, and of course, Benson, Dean Benson was head of engineering, and he always had a real interest in medicine, and so that all went together.
In fact, he, based on that whole thing, he set up a PhD, or a doctorate of engineering.
But
We didn't really have anything to do with Sampson.
I mean, he was, you know, General Ludeke and Sampson.
Now, Ludeke fitted in real good, because on that biomedical engineering thing we had set up, he was, I'd used retired military people, and he was, of course, a general.
Ludeke was probably more in tune with lots of things we were doing than anybody, but Sampson never, he seemed to be kind of removed from them.
All right, then he is succeeded by Vandiver, who was appointed as president in 81.
Did that have any effect on veterinary medicine?
Well, yeah.
In a way, Van Ver, whom you know well and I know, I was, when are you ready to cut this thing off?
But anyhow, I was on the Presidential Search Committee to try to find somebody at that time.
Our committee was divided up into two groups.
George Mitchell had half of the group, and then Bum Bright had the other half, and we reviewed several hundred people for the presidency, and we had outside
source consultant group to help us and we spent six or eight months on narrowing that down.
We would work in two separate groups all morning and then we'd come together in the afternoon as one group and see where we were.
and see how we reconciled each other.
And we really worked on that very, very hard for a long, long time.
And then unbeknowing to us, we get a call one day that Dr. Vandiver from North Texas State had been hired as president.
He was never on our list, never looked at in any way.
And we were told to turn in all of our notes and everything and that there was to be no comment made on how the President was selected.
We can't finish.
Okay, back to, I guess, the original question of what happened under Dr. Vannevar.
Well, Dr. Vannevar came in, again, being on this search committee and spending lots of time, we were all shocked that
Bob Bright had had lunch with Dr. Vandiver in Dallas one day and offered him the president of Texas A&M University.
Well, when he got here, I served on so many committees in my life, but one of them was a committee on committees.
where we were reviewing all the committees at Texas A&M.
And another one was a committee on faculty governance.
And being military and so forth, and I believed in line item, direct chain of command, and so forth, and was very happy with the academic council.
And Dr. Vandiver came in and said, we're going to have a faculty senate.
and turn it over to our committee to see what, how that could be accomplished.
Well, I rednecked, opposed it, and fought it, and told those Ph.D.
members that Highway 6 ran both ways, that we were doing quite well as a university.
We did not need a bunch of faculty, and we had
set up already a hybrid system where the Academic Council had adjunct members, one from every department, so that they could come to all the meetings and make their comments and inputs and all that, and it was functioning quite well.
Well, it wasn't very long after that that Dr. Vandiver called me and wanted me to have lunch at his house, at the president's house.
And he talked a long time about how we had to have a faculty senate
I had been involved in getting Texas A&M University on probation with the American Association of University presidents or something, AAU or something, and through firing a faculty member and a few things.
But anyhow, he said, we've got to get back, you know, on accreditation, and we've got to have a faculty senate, and we've got to do this, and we've got to do that.
And I said, well, I just can't see it.
I never worried about my position in life, and that probably was not good.
But anyhow, he said, well, I'll tell you what I'm going to do.
He said, I'm going to set a bicarmel form of government up here.
And I said, well, explain to me what you mean.
He said, well, I'm going to have a faculty-type group, and I'm going to keep the academic council.
And we're going to work, I'm going to work with that group.
Well, after they voted in a faculty senate, I think the academic council met once and never heard from it again.
And so then the faculty senate took off and they'd done fairly well, I guess.
And then later on, George Shelton and Dean Gage and
The director of the, Walter Jewel.
We went to see Vandiver one time, Dr. Vandiver one time, about setting up here the Food Safety and Inspection Service.
And we went over, and he said, no.
He said, we're not a technical school.
We don't fool with that kind of stuff.
And he said, I don't think we should make application for it.
So on the way back, I told George, I said,
You know, he's a historian type guy, and he might understand if we approach him from a standpoint of history.
George says, well, what do you mean?
I said, well, let's just go back to the beginning of veterinary medicine and the laws and bylaws in the state and the congressional records and everything else that brought veterinary medicine to the forefront.
And it was all based on food safety from day one of veterinary medicine.
And so George and I put together a paper, a brief, sent it back to Dr. Vandiver.
And Dr. Vanner said, oh, I didn't know that y'all were that involved with meat inspection and all of that, animal, food animal.
And he said, you can go ahead and make an application.
And so now we're the nation's center for food safety.
But it's just a matter of educational process, I guess.
That ought to be enough today, don't you think?
Are you saying you want to quit?
Yeah, I'm tired.
Okay.